---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "readme_doc Data Source - readme"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Retrieve docs on ReadMe.com
  See https://docs.readme.com/main/reference/getdoc for more information about this API endpoint.
---

# readme_doc (Data Source)

Retrieve docs on ReadMe.com

See <https://docs.readme.com/main/reference/getdoc> for more information about this API endpoint.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Retrieve a doc from ReadMe.
data "readme_doc" "example" {
  slug = "my-example-doc"
}

output "example_doc" {
  value = data.readme_doc.example
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `slug` (String) The slug of the doc.
- `verify_parent_doc` (Boolean) Enables or disables the provider verifying the `parent_doc` exists. When using the `parent_doc` attribute with a hidden parent, the provider is unable to verify if the parent exists. Setting this to `false` will disable this behavior. When `false`, the `parent_doc_slug` value will not be resolved by the provider unless explicitly set. The `parent_doc_slug` attribute may be used as an alternative. Verifying a `parent_doc` by ID does not work if the parent is hidden.
- `version` (String) The version to create the doc under.

### Read-Only

- `algolia` (Attributes) Metadata about the Algolia search integration. See <https://docs.readme.com/main/docs/search> for more information. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--algolia))
- `api` (Attributes) Metadata for an API doc. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--api))
- `body` (String) The body content of the doc, formatted in ReadMe or GitHub flavored Markdown.
- `body_clean` (String) The body content of the doc, formatted in ReadMe or GitHub flavored Markdown. This is an alias for the `body` attribute.
- `body_html` (String) The body content in HTML.
- `category` (String) The category ID of the doc. Note that changing the category will result in a replacement of the doc resource.
- `category_slug` (String) **Required**. The category ID of the doc. Note that changing the category will result in a replacement of the doc resource. This attribute may optionally be set in the body front matter.
- `created_at` (String) Timestamp of when the version was created.
- `deprecated` (Boolean) Toggles if a doc is deprecated or not.
- `error` (Attributes) Error code configuration for a doc. This attribute may be set in the body front matter. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--error))
- `excerpt` (String) A short summary of the content.
- `hidden` (Boolean) Toggles if a doc is hidden or not. This attribute may be set in the body front matter.
- `icon` (String)
- `id` (String) The ID of the doc.
- `is_api` (Boolean)
- `is_reference` (Boolean)
- `link_external` (Boolean)
- `link_url` (String)
- `metadata` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metadata))
- `next` (Attributes) Information about the 'next' pages in a series. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--next))
- `order` (Number) The position of the doc in the project sidebar.
- `parent_doc` (String) If the doc has a parent doc, this is doc ID of the parent.
- `parent_doc_slug` (String) If the doc has a parent doc, this is doc slug of the parent.
- `previous_slug` (String)
- `project` (String) The ID of the project the doc is in.
- `revision` (Number) A number that is incremented upon doc updates.
- `slug_updated_at` (String) The timestamp of when the doc's slug was last updated.
- `sync_unique` (String)
- `title` (String) The title of the doc.
- `type` (String) Type of the doc. The available types all show up under the /docs/ URL path of your docs project (also known as the "guides" section). Can be "basic" (most common), "error" (page desribing an API error), or "link" (page that redirects to an external link).
- `updated_at` (String) The timestamp of when the doc was last updated.
- `use_slug` (String) This is an unused attribute in the data source that is present to satisfy the model shared with the doc resource. It may be removed in the future.
- `user` (String) The ID of the author of the doc in the web editor.
- `version_id` (String) The version ID the doc is associated with.

<a id="nestedatt--algolia"></a>
### Nested Schema for `algolia`

Read-Only:

- `publish_pending` (Boolean)
- `record_count` (Number)
- `updated_at` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--api"></a>
### Nested Schema for `api`

Read-Only:

- `api_setting` (String)
- `auth` (String)
- `examples` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--api--examples))
- `method` (String)
- `params` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--api--params))
- `results` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--api--results))
- `url` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--api--examples"></a>
### Nested Schema for `api.examples`

Read-Only:

- `codes` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--api--examples--codes))

<a id="nestedatt--api--examples--codes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `api.examples.codes`

Read-Only:

- `code` (String)
- `language` (String)



<a id="nestedatt--api--params"></a>
### Nested Schema for `api.params`

Read-Only:

- `default` (String)
- `desc` (String)
- `enum_values` (String)
- `id` (String)
- `in` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `ref` (String)
- `required` (Boolean)
- `type` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--api--results"></a>
### Nested Schema for `api.results`

Read-Only:

- `codes` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--api--results--codes))

<a id="nestedatt--api--results--codes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `api.results.codes`

Read-Only:

- `code` (String)
- `language` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `status` (Number)




<a id="nestedatt--error"></a>
### Nested Schema for `error`

Read-Only:

- `code` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Read-Only:

- `description` (String)
- `image` (List of String)
- `title` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--next"></a>
### Nested Schema for `next`

Read-Only:

- `description` (String)
- `pages` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--next--pages))

<a id="nestedatt--next--pages"></a>
### Nested Schema for `next.pages`

Read-Only:

- `category` (String)
- `deprecated` (Boolean)
- `icon` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `slug` (String)
- `type` (String)
