---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "readme_version Resource - readme"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages Versions on ReadMe.com
  See https://docs.readme.com/main/reference/getversion for more information about this API endpoint.
---

# readme_version (Resource)

Manages Versions on ReadMe.com

See <https://docs.readme.com/main/reference/getversion> for more information about this API endpoint.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# The "readme_version" resource manages versions in ReadMe.
# Create a version resource.
resource "readme_version" "example" {
  version   = "1.1.0"
  from      = "1.0.0"
  is_hidden = true
}

# Output the created resource attributes.
output "created_version" {
  value = readme_version.example
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `from` (String) The version this version is derived from. Note that this is only an attribute used for initial creation. The ReadMe API otherwise refers to the 'from' value as an ID tracked in the forked_from attribute. When importing a version, the from field will be created after the next apply.
- `version` (String) The version string, usually a semantic version.

### Optional

- `codename` (String) Dubbed name of version.
- `is_beta` (Boolean) Toggles if the version is beta or not.
- `is_deprecated` (Boolean) Toggles if the version is deprecated or not.
- `is_hidden` (Boolean) Toggles if the version is hidden or not. A project's stable version cannot be set to hidden.
- `is_stable` (Boolean) Toggles if the version is stable. A project can only have a single stable version. Changing a stable version to non-stable will trigger a replacement. The main 'stable' version for a project cannot be deleted.

### Read-Only

- `categories` (List of String) List of category IDs the version is associated with.
- `created_at` (String) Timestamp of when the version was created.
- `forked_from` (String) The ID of the version this version is derived from.
- `id` (String) The ID of the version.
- `project` (String) The project the version is in.
- `release_date` (String) Timestamp of when the version was released.
- `version_clean` (String) A 'clean' version string with certain characters replaced, usually a semantic version.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Versions can be imported using their version number.

# For best results, use the "version_clean" value, which is available through
# the ReadMe API or the provider's data sources. When using semantic versions,
# this is generally not a concern.
terraform import readme_version.example 1.2.3
```
